---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/homebrew-and-alt-rules/classes/paragon-classes/vampire-scion/vampire-talents/sanguimancy-talents/blood-walk/"}
---

<sup><sup>[[Mistveil\|Mistveil]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Classes\|Classes]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Scion\|Vampire Scion]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Vampire Talents\|Vampire Talents]] → Blood Walk</sup></sup>
**Prerequisite(s)**: Any eight Sanguimancy talents.

Benefits: A Vampire with this talent gains the supernatural ability to transport themselves great distances via the blood of living creatures. Once per day the Vampire can seamlessly enter any living creature (except a creature without blood or a similar fluid) whose size equals or exceeds their own and pass any distance to another living creature on the same plane in a single round, regardless of the distance separating the two. The Vampire merely designates a direction and distance (“a living creature twenty miles due west of here”), and transports to a destination creature as close as possible to the desired location. The Vampire can’t specify a named individual as the endpoint unless they have previously obtained a sample of that creature’s blood and has it preserved in a vial. The entry and destination creatures need not be familiar to the Vampire. The Vampire cannot use themselves as an entry creature. If an intended entry creature is unwilling, the Vampire must make a successful melee touch attack to enter. (A missed touch attack does not use up the ability for that day.) When exiting a creature, the Vampire chooses an adjacent square in which to appear. Entering and exiting a creature is painless unless the Vampire wishes otherwise (see below). In most cases, though, the destination creature finds being the endpoint of a magical portal surprising and quite unsettling. If the Vampire desires, they can attempt to make a bloody exit from the destination creature. The Vampire bursts forth explosively from the creature’s body, dealing 10d6 points of damage unless the creature makes a Fortitude saving throw (DC 10 + ½ the Vampire's level + the Vampire's Charisma modifier). When the Vampire makes a bloody exit, they must succeed on a DC 15 Fortitude saving throw or be stunned for 1 round from the shock of their expulsion. 