---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/homebrew-and-alt-rules/classes/paragon-classes/vampire-scion/vampire-talents/sanguimancy-talents/control-blood/"}
---

<sup><sup>[[Mistveil\|Mistveil]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Classes\|Classes]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Scion\|Vampire Scion]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Vampire Talents\|Vampire Talents]] → Control Blood</sup></sup>
**Prerequisite(s)**: Any six Sanguimancy talents.

**Benefits**: Once per day, a Vampire with this talent can attempt to seize control of a target's blood forcing them to freeze in place, or perform simple actions and movements by controlling their limbs like a marionette. When first activated this talent functions like the *[Hold Monster](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/magic/all-spells/h/hold-monster/)* spell except it has a range of close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) and a duration of 1 minute/level (D) and the Will DC to resist this effect is 10 + ½ the Vampire's level + the Vampire's Charisma modifier. After a creature has been frozen in place, the Vampire can, as a swift action once each turn, force them to perform simple tasks such as moving up to 10ft (including vertically by forcing their blood to rise and dragging the body along with it), dropping or picking something up, or opening a door. These tasks are slow and simple so cannot require more than a move action to perform or require complex bodily movements such as dancing or even speaking. As per the *[Hold Monster](https://www.d20pfsrd.com/magic/all-spells/h/hold-monster/)* spell, the target of this talent may attempt an additional Will saving throw on each of their turns as a full-round action that does not provoke an attack of opportunity to break free of the Vampire's control before the duration of the effect expires. At 17th level, the Vampire can use this talent twice per day. 