---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/homebrew-and-alt-rules/classes/paragon-classes/vampire-scion/vampire-talents/sanguimancy-talents/corruption-mist/"}
---

<sup><sup>[[Mistveil\|Mistveil]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Classes\|Classes]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Scion\|Vampire Scion]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Vampire Talents\|Vampire Talents]] → Corruption Mist</sup></sup>
**Prerequisite(s)**: Any four Sanguimancy talents, [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Sanguimancy Talents/Blood Mist\|Blood Mist]] talent.

**Benefits**: Once per day, a Vampire with this talent can manifest a small bead of [[Tainted Blood\|Tainted Blood]] within a target that's within 100 ft. + 10 ft./level. This single cell of [[Tainted Blood\|Tainted Blood]] grows rapidly, infecting the blood cells around it until, 1d4 rounds after being infected, the infected blood cells explode outward into a contagious [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Sanguimancy Talents/Blood Mist\|Blood Mist]]. When this explosion of corrupted blood happens, the target takes 1d8/level damage and can make a Reflex saving throw (DC 10 + ½ the Vampire's level + the Vampire's Charisma modifier) to half this damage. In addition a [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Sanguimancy Talents/Blood Mist\|Blood Mist]] forms with the target at the center. Anyone other than the original target who breaths in this mist (by failing their Fortitude saving throw and becoming staggered) also becomes infected with a weakened Corruption Mist which takes effect once the staggered condition wears off. These weakened Corruption Mists only deal 1d4/level damage (reflex half), form a [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Classes/Paragon Classes/Vampire Scion/Vampire Talents/Sanguimancy Talents/Blood Mist\|Blood Mist]] with a radius of 10ft, and are not contagious. At 14th level the Vampire can use this ability an additional time each day. 