---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/homebrew-and-alt-rules/races/core-races/sylphs/sylphs/"}
---

<sup><sup>[[Mistveil\|Mistveil]] → [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Races\|Races]] → Sylphs</sup></sup>
Sylphs are a rare case across the [[Cosmology/Sea of Dreams\|Sea of Dreams]] because they are not born naturally, they are created. Initially born as another humanoid race, normally [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/Humans\|Human]] or [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/High Elves\|Elven]] on the Material Plane, Sylphs are infused with massive amounts of elemental energy very early in their lives physically changing them forever; if they survive that is. Across the [[Cosmology/Sea of Dreams\|Sea of Dreams]] there are a few ways for newborns to be exposed to this energy, sometimes on accident and sometimes by design. On the Material Plane however the only way this can normally happen is if the baby is born near, or comes into contact soon after with, [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Elemental Nodes]]. The chance of this infusion happening is increased if the [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Node]] is unstable, but even then it is a rare occurrence. 

If the child survives both the method of their transformation and the following weeks while the energy stabilizes within them, Sylphs have varying appearances based on the type of elemental energy they were exposed to but have some traits in common. Some of these traits are a hair color that has a tinge of the color corresponding to their element, eye color with the same tinge, and a series of markings on their bodies of different shapes and colors. Sylphs also have unique traits at times including other strange physical traits and even things such as influence on the weather. These unique traits seem connected to the Sylphs emotions somehow and can intensify if the Sylph is put under emotional stress. The leading theory behind this is that because of their creation, Sylphs are basically minor [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Elemental Nodes]] themselves and as their emotions become unstable, their "[[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Node]]" starts to act like an unstable [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Node]], affecting the area around them.
#### Sylphs in [[Known Continents/Mortend/Countries/Baylore/Divine Kingdom of Baylore\|Baylore]]
The first recorded birth of a Sylph was when a ship carrying civilians up the east coast came into a sudden hurricane caused by an unstable [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Water Node]]. The chaos of the event caused a pregnant [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/High Elves\|High Elven]] passenger to go into labor and give birth moments before the ship went under. The newborn must have been pulled by the current directly into the [[Cosmology/Outer Realms/Elemental Conflux\|Node]] and, incredibly, survived both the harsh waters and the massive infusion of the elemental energy. She was found washed up on the shore near a fishing village the ship was heading toward and taken in by the fisherman who found her. A mage from [[Holy City of Vardona\|Vardona]] was called to examine the child and discovered her origin. Unfortunately the child died weeks later when the energy inside her became unstable, she lost her physical form, and finally dissolved into a pool of water.
<br>
#### Types of Sylphs
- [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/Sylphs/Air Sylphs\|Air Sylphs]]
- [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/Sylphs/Earth Sylphs\|Earth Sylphs]]
- [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/Sylphs/Fire Sylphs\|Fire Sylphs]]
- [[Homebrew and Alt Rules/Races/Core Races/Sylphs/Water Sylphs\|Water Sylphs]]